Client-Side Attacks
Client-side attack vectors
are especially insidious
as they exploit weaknesses
in client software,
such as a browser, as opposed
to exploiting server software.
This often involves some form of
user interaction and deception
in order for the client software
to execute malicious code.
These attack vectors are particularly
appealing for an attacker
because they do not require direct or
routable access to the victim’s machine.
For example, imagine that an employee
inside a non-routable internal network
has received an email with an attachment
or a link to a malicious website.
If the employee opens the attachment
or clicks on the link,
the content, which may be a document
or the contents of a web page,
is sent as input to a local application
on their machine.
The application will then render that
input and could execute malicious code.
The employee’s machine
would then be exploited,
perhaps launching a remote shell
from the compromised machine
out through the firewall, to a
listener on the attacker’s machine.
In this module we will describe some
of the factors that are important
to consider in this type of attack and
walk through exploitation scenarios
involving both malicious HTML
Applications and Microsoft Word documents.